# Bridge Chloride Exposure Predictor

Developer Names: Cynthia Liu, Spencer Smith

Theory support: Mingsai Xu

Date of project start: January 19, 2024

This project is intended to investigate how climate, traffic might impact corrosion-induced damage for reinforced concrete bridges by influencing the chloride exposure.


The folders and files for this project are as follows:
```
.
├── docs                   
│   ├── SRS                
│   ├── VnVPlan         
|   ├── Design
│   |   ├── SoftArchitecture
│   │   └── SoftDetailedDes 
│   └── VnVReport                
│── src          
|   ├── web         # code for user side of the software
│   |   ├── public  # files generated from database
│   │   └── src     # code for the website, including the geojson file for the jurisdiction boundary
│   └── database    # code for generating the database  
│── Makefile            # quick start commands
│── requirements.txt    # dependencies
└── data.xlsx      # traffic model and climate model
```
## Set Up

### Python
This databse for this project is generated by Python. To install Python in windows, simply download the release from [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/) and follow the install instructions.\
To install Python on mac, you can download the release from [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/macos/).

### Python Virtual Environment (Recommended)
To avoid dependency conflicts, it is recommended to use a Python virtual environment
1. Create the virtual environment in the project root:
`python -m venv venv`

    This will create a venv directory containing an isolated Python environment for this project.

2. Activate the virtual environment

    On macOS / Linux:  `source venv/bin/activate`

    On Windows (PowerShell):  `venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1`

    If you encounter an execution policy error in PowerShell, you may need to run:
    `Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser`

After activation, your terminal prompt should be prefixed with `(venv)`.

### Vue
The web interface is built using Vue and its dependencies are installed locally via npm.
No global Vue installation is required.

### Node
Node.js provides a JavaScript runtime environment to execute the JavaScript code outside of a web browser.

To install node in Windows using the [Installer](https://nodejs.org/en/download).  To install on a Mac, use the [Installer](https://nodejs.org/en/download) or `brew install node`.

### Make
This project use [make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/make.html#Overview) as an access for running the software. 

To install make in Windows, you can do 
`winget install ezwinports.make` in PowerShell. \
To install make in mac, do `brew install make` if you have [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) installed. It is also available in other package managers. \
After installation, restart PowerShell or Terminal to make it work.

## How to Start

1. Open the command line terminal (for mac) or PowerShell (for windows).
2. Clone this repo via `git clone` in your folder of choice
3. `cd` into the repo (`BridgeChlorideExposurePredictor` by default)
3. Activate the Python virtual environment following the procedure above in [Python Setup](#python-virtual-environment-recommended).
4. Do `make requirements` in the root folder of this repo to install the libraries and dependencies.
5. Do `make database` to generate the chloride exposure database.
6. Do `make web` to run the software on the local machine. 
7. You should see the message from terminal saying that the software is running successfully in localhost. Usually it is http://127.0.0.1:5000 but it might differ on your machine.

### Alternative ways to run
If the above method does not work, you can try the following in the root folder of this repo:
```
python src/database/calculation.py
cd src/web && npm run serve
```
Then the software should be running in localhost.


Notes: In some Python versions, you might need to do python3 instead of python to run the app. That is:
```
python3 src/database/calculation.py
cd src/web && npm run serve
```

## Usage
#### Input Longitude and Latitude
Users can provide longitude and latitude by either entering the numeric values directly into the text boxes or by clicking on a point within the specified jurisdiction on the map.

#### View the Data
Once the coordinates are entered, the corresponding data for the selected location will be displayed below. Additionally, a visualization is provided to offer further insights.

#### Download data
Users have the option to download the data for further analysis. The data is presented in a csv format with the year and corresponding value aligned vertically. Each row represents a specific year, while the columns display the year and its associated value for clear and concise representation.

## Quit
Press `Command+ C` in terminal and `Ctrl + C` in PowerShell to quit the software.

To exit your virtual environment enter `deactivate` at the terminal prompt.

